Quick Quotes Calculator
Overview
The Quick Quotes Calculator (which we are going to call as QQC throughout this document) is a mobile app which aims to streamline the process of quoting jobs which is done by tradies very commonly. The QQC will primarily be targeted towards tradespeople and sole traders who regularly need to quote complex jobs. The app would allow the user to quickly tally up the quantity and cost price for each line item of any given task, with users being able to customize job names and types, making it a more streamlined and accurate process. This information is used to instantly generate an itemized quote that is individualized and can be exported to other apps such as email for streamlined customer experience. 
The user interface is going to very consumer friendly and easy to use with very easy to understand prompts and animations to make it look trendier and more attractive. It is going to be a very trendy app which will look very attractive to the customer and while designing we are going to be mindful that our main customers are going to be tradies so it’s going to suit their appetite and it’s going to be main user interface design constrain. It will have customer relation management (CRM) functionality also.
Motivation
According to Hipages, 2023, “trade workers spend an average of seven hours a week preparing quotes”. Such a function equates to nearly 20% of the entire working week. Much of this time is spent summing up quantities, and total values for each job item. If the tradesperson were to make any errors in calculations, many hours may be spent trying to find the mistake. This figure will likely grow as jobs get more complex, and Australia’s math skills decline. By instantly generating quotes, QQC mitigates any risk of miscalculation, saving time and money for the business.
Landscape
In our research we found that there are a few apps are already existing in the market to generate quotes which can be found on the following web page.
Best Quoting Software 2023 | Reviews of the Most Popular Tools & Systems (capterra.com)
In today’s competitive market we were not expecting out app to be a first of its kind so we did a thorough research about all the app available and we reach to the following points which will make out app look different and eye catching.
User Interface: - Almost all the apps have not paid any attention on making user interface very attractive they are all with plain and boring background whereas ours users’ interface is going to be very eye catching because we believe that first impression is the last impression.
Distance measuring Tool: - None of them is having an option to measure length, width and height which is our aim to achieve. Along with quote our app is going to measure distance which has got application in construction industry as tradies need not run for tape measure everything is available in their app and it will help them while ordering the raw materials which is going to be part of the CRM.
Customer Relation Management Functionality: - Addition of customer relation management (CRM) functionality into it is going to make it stand out of competition as this functionality is provided by any of available apps.
Addition of artificial intelligence in future is going to make it way too advanced for our customers.
